[#396] Read and set LogLevel from environment variable (#474)
eclipse-iceoryx/iceoryx2: FAQ.md

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->

> > [!IMPORTANT] Be aware that the history of the old publisher is lost when it is

Reviewer: Oh no, does the script have some autocorrection?
This breaks the github [alerts syntax](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax#alerts). `> [!IMPORTANT]` must be on a separate line than the content

Reviewer: @zmostafa can you please revert those changes. It breaks the alert syntax. Please also have a look at the other open point.

Author: @elBoberido hmmm, I think i did, are you sure you are looking at the latest commit?

Reviewer: @zmostafa I hope to look at the latest commit :sweat_smile:

I did a Ctrl+F5, which should reload everything and dismiss caches but I still see `> [!IMPORTANT]` on the same line as `Be aware that ...`

Reviewer 2: Note I believe this happens because the auto-corrector does not recognise GitHub-style admonitions, so you need to manually ensure these are on their own line otherwise the auto corrector will try and do line length correction with it on the same line.

Not ideal, I know, but the idea is for the corrector to fix around 90% of the issues which should save more time than manually fixing these small edge cases (e.g. manually fixing all line lengths).

Reviewer: Can we skip line breaks in the auto-corrector? It's just a styling issue, not a rendering issue and it seems to break the github admonitions.

Reviewer 2: I believe this is the line length corrector causing this. If disabled, then users would need to ensure line length limits were maintained, either manually or with an IDE. I deduced that this would be a larger annoyance for contributor than fixing these more limited edge cases. 

Of course, we could check if the auto corrector could be updated to recognise the GitHub admonitions (these were not used in our documentation at the time of preparing the script).

Reviewer: Well, I would argue that one is not only an annoyance but breaks the rendering of the readme if the reviewer does not pay attention and the other one is a choice by ourselves and does not break the rendering if the line is too long. I would rather deactivate the line length detection than having to keep in mind to check for broken admonitions in the PR.

Reviewer 2: Will fix the linter after this PR: https://github.com/eclipse-iceoryx/iceoryx2/issues/637

## How to use `log` or `tracing` as default log backend

* **log**, add the feature flag `logger_log` to the dependency in `Cargo.toml`
  ```toml
  iceoryx2 = { version = "0.1.0", features = ["logger_log"]}
  ```
* **tracing**, add the feature flag `logger_tracing` to the dependency in
  `Cargo.toml`
  ```toml
   iceoryx2 = { version = "0.1.0", features = ["logger_tracing"]}
  ```

## Supported log levels

iceoryx2 support different log levels
`Trace, Debug, Info, Warning, Error, Fatal`

## How to set the log level

iceoryx2 gets its default logging level from `.cargo/config.toml` , but this can
be over-ridden by environment variable `IOX2_LOG_LEVEL` the developer can set
this environment variable with one of the supported levels.

`export IOX2_LOG_LEVEL=Trace`

> then in the main.rs call the function to read the environment variable
> ```rust

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
then in the main.rs call the function to read the environment variable

```rust
```

Author: Done

## How to use `log` or `tracing` as default log backend

* **log**, add the feature flag `logger_log` to the dependency in `Cargo.toml`
  ```toml
  iceoryx2 = { version = "0.1.0", features = ["logger_log"]}
  ```
* **tracing**, add the feature flag `logger_tracing` to the dependency in
  `Cargo.toml`
  ```toml
   iceoryx2 = { version = "0.1.0", features = ["logger_tracing"]}
  ```

## Supported log levels

iceoryx2 support different log levels

> `Trace, Debug, Info, Warning, Error, Fatal`

Reviewer: Just noticed, in iceoryx1 we used all lower space strings. For consistency, we probably should do the same in iceoryx2. Of course, we can keep the behavior that variants like `TrAcE` also work.

## How to set the log level

iceoryx2 gets its default logging level from `.cargo/config.toml` , but this can
be over-ridden by environment variable `IOX2_LOG_LEVEL` the developer can set
this environment variable with one of the supported levels.

`export IOX2_LOG_LEVEL=Trace`

then in the main.rs call the function to read the environment variable

```rust
use iceoryx2::prelude::*

// ...

set_log_level_from_env_or_default();
```

Developers can also set the logging level from within the code which will take
precedence over the environment variable:

```rust

> use iceoryx2::prelude::*

Reviewer: What do you think of adding all three options to set the log level in the same code block? Maybe by adding an additional comment above each option?

## How to use `log` or `tracing` as default log backend

* **log**, add the feature flag `logger_log` to the dependency in `Cargo.toml`
  ```toml
  iceoryx2 = { version = "0.1.0", features = ["logger_log"]}
  ```
* **tracing**, add the feature flag `logger_tracing` to the dependency in
  `Cargo.toml`
  ```toml
   iceoryx2 = { version = "0.1.0", features = ["logger_tracing"]}
  ```

## Supported log levels

iceoryx2 support different log levels
`trace, debug, info, warning, error, fatal`

## How to set the log level

While developing, iceoryx2 gets its default logging level from `.cargo/config.toml`, 
but this can be over-ridden by using environment variable `IOX2_LOG_LEVEL` that can

> be set with one of the supported levels.

Reviewer: Sorry being picky about this. The default log level is defined in `iceoryx2-bb/log/src/lib.rs`. The `.cargo/config.toml` file is just a convenient way to set the environment variable for the specific project. If the environment variable was explicitly set by the user, that one will have precedence over the one in the toml file.

Since this section is not only about the environment variable, but in general about setting the log level, the emphasis should be about setting the log level programmatically and also with the environment variable. It can be mentioned that for convenience the environment variable can be set in the toml file, but that's only important for developers since that won't work in a deployment, which is probably what they are looking for when reading this document. Note, for iceoryx developers, there is the FAQ_ICEORYX2_DEVS.md.

Author: @elBoberido your repo, your picky rules
If I understand this correctly, I should remove the part that talks about setting it in the toml file, and focus only on the environment variable, right?

`export IOX2_LOG_LEVEL=Trace`

> then in the `main.rs` call the function to read the environment variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then in the `main.rs` call one of the functions to set the log level
```

```rust
use iceoryx2::prelude::*

// ...

// Reads LogLevel from env and defaults to LogLevel INFO

> // if the environemnt variable has an unsupported value

Reviewer: Small typo. Also, if the env variable is not set, the default log level will be used.
```suggestion
// if the environment variable is not set or has an unsupported value
```

set_log_level_from_env_or_default();

// Reads LogLevel from env and sets it with a user-given value

> // if the environemnt variable has an unsupported value 

Reviewer: Same here :)
```suggestion
// if the environment variable is not set or has an unsupported value 
```

set_log_level_from_env_or(LogLevel::DEBUG);

// sets LogLevel programmatically with a supported user-given value

> // this will take precedence over LogLevel defined by an environment variable

Reviewer: This might be ambiguous. One could assume that the env variable is still read but not used. What do you think about just `and does not try to read the environment variable`

## How to set the log level

iceoryx2 gets the logging level from either the code, or the environment variable `IOX2_LOG_LEVEL`
the developer can set this environment variable with one of the supported levels:
```Trace, Debug, Info, Warning, Error, Fatal``` 

`export IOX2_LOG_LEVEL=Trace`

> or via `.cargo/config.toml` 

Author: @elBoberido no need to apologize, you are running a company now, how hard it can be? :D
